\input texinfo   @c -*-texinfo-*-

@c %**start of header
@setfilename netcfg.info
@settitle netcfg
@afourpaper
@documentencoding UTF-8
@documentlanguage en
@finalout
@c %**end of header



@dircategory Networking
@direntry
* netcfg: (netcfg).                  Network configuration and profile scripts
@end direntry


@copying
Copyright @copyright{} 2013 Mattias Andrée, Jouke Witteveen, et al.

@quotation
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
Invariant Sections, with no Front-Cover Texts, and with no Back-Cover
Texts. A copy of the license is included in the section entitled
``GNU Free Documentation License''.
@end quotation
@end copying

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top netcfg -- Network configuration and profile scripts
@insertcopying
@end ifnottex

@titlepage
@title netcfg
@subtitle Network configuration and profile scripts
@author by netcfg authors

@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying
@page
@end titlepage

@contents



@menu
* Overview::                        Brief overview of @command{netcfg}.
* Invoking::                        Invocation of @command{netcfg}.
* Files::                           Files related to netcfg.
* Configuration::                   Configuring netcfg.
* GNU Free Documentation License::  Copying and sharing this manual.
@end menu



@node Overview
@chapter Overview

@command{netcfg} is used to configure and manage network connections via profiles.
It has pluggable support for a range of connection types, such as wireless,
ethernet, ppp. It is also capable of starting/stopping many to one connections,
that is, multiple connections within the same profile, optionally with bonding.

It may be run at boot, by  adding @command{net-profiles} to @var{DAEMONS} in
@file{/etc/rc.conf}, or, on systemd systems, by by enabling the @command{netcfg}
systemd service. After boot time, it may be used to start profiles, simply
by passing only the profile name.

When run without options, netcfg profile is equivalent to @command{netcfg -u}
profile.



@node Invoking
@chapter Invoking

The format for invoking @command{netcfg} is @code{netcfg ([option...] | profile)}.
@command{netcfg} recognised the following options.


@table @option
@item -l
@itemx -list
List all available profiles.

@item current
Report currently running profiles.

@item -c
@itemx check-iface @var{profile}
Start the specified profile, only if it’s interface is not currently up.

@item -u
@itemx up @var{profile}
Start the specified profile.

@item -r
@itemx reconnect @var{profile}
Disconnect and reconnect the specified profile.

@item -R
@itemx iface-recon @var{interface}
Reconnect profile active on specified interface.

@item -d
@itemx down @var{profile}
Stop the specified profile.

@item -D
@itemx iface-down @var{interface}
Stop the profile up on the specified interface.

@item -a
@itemx all-down
Stop all connected profiles.

@item all-suspend
Suspend and store the name of all active profiles.

@item all-resume
Reconnect any profiles that have been suspended.

@item -v
@itemx --version
Display version information and exit.

@item -h
@itemx --help
Display help message and exit.
@end table


Set the environment variable @var{NETCFG_DEBUG} to @code{1}
for activate debug output.



@node Files
@chapter Files

@table @file
@item /etc/conf.d/netcfg
Parameters for startup.

@item /etc/network.d/
User-defined profiles.

@item /usr/lib/network/connections/
Currently installed network profile types.

@item /etc/network.d/examples/
Example profiles.

@item /usr/share/doc/netcfg/contrib/
Inspirational scripts.
@end table



@node Configuration
@chapter Configuration

@menu
* Available Connections::           Connection available in netcfg.
@end menu


The netcfg profiles are plain text files that defines variables
for netcfg behaviour. They must be compliant with bash shell
syntax and usually do not execute any code.

They are named @file{/etc/network.d/@var{profile_name}}, where
@var{profile_name} must not contain a newline character and
should not start with the ‘@@’-sign.

Profiles must define mandatory variables:

@table @var
@item INTERFACE
The name of the associated network interface.

@item DESCRIPTION
A description of the profile.

@item CONNECTION
The connection type used by the profile.
@end table

Connections define how the network is set up for the profile and
also determine additional configuration variable that control their
behaviour. The available connection types are determined by files
in @file{/usr/lib/network/connections/}.



@node Available Connections
@section Available Connections

The following connection available in netcfg.

@table @code
@item ethernet
Standard network configuration, suitable for wired connections.

@item wireless
Wireless connection, with @command{wpa_supplicant} as
configuration back-end.

@item bond
Bonded network interfaces using @command{ifenslave}.

@item bridge
Network bridge setup using @command{brctl}.

@item tuntap
TUN/TAP interfaces.

@item tunnel
Tunnel interfaces.

@item vlan
VLAN setup.

@item openvpn
OpenVPN setup.

@item ppp
PPP connections setup.

@item pppoe
PPPoE connections setup.
@end table


@menu
* ethernet::                        Options reference for @code{ethernet}
* wireless::                        Options reference for @code{wireless}
* bond::                            Options reference for @code{bond}
* bridge::                          Options reference for @code{bridge}
* tuntap::                          Options reference for @code{tuntap}
* tunnel::                          Options reference for @code{tunnel}
* vlan::                            Options reference for @code{vlan}
* openvpn::                         Options reference for @code{openvpn}
* ppp::                             Options reference for @code{ppp}
@c* pppoe::                           Options reference for @code{pppoe}
@end menu



@node ethernet
@subsection @code{ethernet}

This connection method uses the iproute suite of tools and dhcpcd
to gain an IP address.

@table @asis
@item @var{IP} (required for IPv4)
Either @code{static} or @code{dhcp}. Set to @code{no} to have netcfg
bring the interface up but assign no addresses. Static requires at
least one of @var{ADDR} or @var{IPCFG}.

@item @var{IPCFG}
Array of arguments to pass to @var{IP}. The power of this options is
that it allows both simple and complicated routing configurations,
within the framework of netcfg.

@item @var{SKIPNOCARRIER}
@code{yes} or @code{no}. Don't abort interface setup if no carrier
is found.
@end table

IPv4 options

@table @asis
@item @var{ADDR} (requires @var{IP} of @code{static})
A single IP address to configure a static IP.

@item @var{GATEWAY} (requires @var{IP} of @code{static})
Set specified gateway

@item @var{NETMASK} (requires @var{IP} of @code{static})
Set specified netmask. Defaults to @code{24}.

@item @var{ROUTES}
An array of custom routes (of the form address range via gateway.)
@end table

IPv6 options

@table @asis
@item @var{IP6} (required for @var{IPv6})
Either @code{dhcp}, @code{dhcp-noaddr}, @code{stateless} or @code{static},
or @code{no} to disable IPv6.

@item @var{ADDR6} (required when @var{IP6} is @code{static})
An array of IPv6 addresses: prefix length may be specified via @code{1234:bcd::11/64} syntax.

@item @var{GATEWAY6} (requires @var{IP6} of @code{static})
The gateway address for IPv6 routing.

@item @var{ROUTES6}
An array of custom routes (of the form address range via gateway.)

@item @var{DAD_TIMEOUT}
Time to wait for Duplicate Address Detection to succeed. Defaults to @code{3} seconds.
@end table

DNS configuration

@table @var
@item RESOLV_CONF
Path to resolver configuration. Defaults to /etc/resolv.conf

@item DNS
Array of DNS nameservers. Simply specify the IP's of each of the DNS nameservers.

@item DNS_OPTIONS
Array of @code{option} lines for @file{/etc/resolv.conf}

@item SEARCH
@code{search} line for @file{RESOLV_CONF}

@item DOMAIN
@code{domain} line for @file{RESOLV_CONF}

@item HOSTNAME
Set the system hostname. Ensure any hostname is correctly referenced in @file{/etc/hosts}.
@end table

DHCP configuration

@table @asis
@item @var{DHCP_OPTIONS} (IPv4)
String. Any extra arguments to pass to the dhcp client, presently @command{dhcpcd}.

@item @var{DHCP_TIMEOUT}
Integer. Maximum time to try for a DHCP IP. Default is @code{10} seconds.

@item @var{DHCLIENT}
@code{yes} or @code{no}. Use @command{dhclient} instead of @command{dhcpcd}.
Defaults to @code{no}.

@item @var{DHCLIENT_OPTIONS} (IPv4)
String. Extra options to pass to @command{dhclient} for IPv4.

@item @var{DHCLIENT6_OPTIONS} (IPv6)
String. Extra options to pass to @command{dhclient} for IPv6.
@end table

802.11x Authentication

@table @asis
@item @var{AUTH8021X}
Use 802.11x authentication. Enable with @code{yes}.

@item @var{WPA_CONF} (required for an @var{AUTH8021X} of @code{yes} only)
Path to @command{wpa_supplicant} configuration.
Defaults to @file{/etc/wpa_supplicant.conf}

@item @var{WPA_OPTS} (optional for an AUTH8021X of @code{yes})
Extra arguments for @command{wpa_supplicant} not specified otherwise.
Any option here must specify @command{wpa_supplicant} driver.
Defaults to @code{-Dwired}.
@end table

Examples:

@table @asis
@item Using @var{ADDR} and @var{GATEWAY} to set static IP and gateway
@example
IP=static
ADDR=192.168.1.23
GATEWAY=192.168.1.1
@end example

@item Using @var{IPCFG} to set a static IP and gateway with custom DNS
@example
IP=static
IPCFG=('addr add dev eth0 192.168.1.23/24 brd +' 'route add default via 192.168.1.1')
DNS=(208.67.222.222  208.67.220.220)
@end example
@end table



@node wireless
@subsection @code{wireless}

This connection method uses wpa_supplicant to configure a
wireless network connection. This connection uses the
@code{ethernet} connection after successful association
and thus supports all of its options.

@table @asis
@item @var{SECURITY} (required for security of @code{wep}, @code{wpa}, @code{wpa-configsection} or @code{wpa-config})
One of @code{wpa}, @code{wep}, @code{none}, @code{wpa-configsection}
or @code{wpa-config}. Defaults to @code{none}.

@item @var{KEY} (required for @var{SECURITY} of @code{wpa} or @code{wep} only)
Wireless encryption key.

@item @var{ESSID} (this or @var{AP} is required)
Name of network to connect to, or hexadecimal digits (see @var{ESSID_TYPE}.)

@item @var{ESSID_TYPE} (optional, defaults to @code{ascii})
Set to @code{ascii} or @code{hex}, if set to @code{hex}, @var{ESSID} will
be interpreted as an hexadecimal SSID and written unquoted to the
@command{wpa_supplicant} configuration file.

@item @var{AP} (this or @var{ESSID} is required)
@var{AP} (BSSID) of the network to connect to.

@item @var{HIDDEN} (optional)
Define this to connect to hidden ESSID:s.

@item @var{ADHOC} (optional)
Define this to use ad-hoc mode for wireless.

@item @var{TIMEOUT} (optional)
Time to wait for association. Defaults to @code{15} seconds.

@item @var{SCAN} (optional)
@code{yes} or @code{no}. Scan for a wireless network rather than blindly
attempting to connect. Hidden SSID networks do not appear in a scan.

@item @var{PRIORITY} (optional)
Priority group for the network. The matched network with the highest
priority will be selected. Defaults to @code{0}.
@end table

The following options are WPA options.

@table @asis
@item @var{WPA_CONF} (for @var{SECURITY} of @code{wpa-config} only)
Path to @command{wpa_supplicant} configuration. Defaults to @file{/etc/wpa_supplicant.conf}.

@item @var{WPA_OPTS}
Extra arguments for @command{wpa_supplicant} not specified otherwise.

@item @var{WPA_GROUP}
Group that has authority to configure @command{wpa_supplicant} via it's
control interface. Used in any configuration that is generated by netcfg.

@item @var{WPA_COUNTRY} (optional, nl80211 based drivers)
The country where the device will be used. This allows @command{wpa_supplicant}
to enforce any local regulatory limitations and will allow all appropriate
channels/frequencies for your device.

@item @var{WPA_DRIVER} (optional)
A comma-separated list of @command{wpa_supplicant} driver interfaces
to try. Defaults to @code{nl80211,wext}.
@end table

The following options are  rfkill (Radio Kill Switch) options.

@table @var
@item RFKILL
@code{hard} or @code{soft}. A switch with physical on/off state that
cannot be controlled via software is considered a hard switch. Any
switch that can be controlled via software is considered soft.

@item RFKILL_NAME
Some switches sysfs entries are not linked with the interface. To match
them up, configure the name from @file{/sys/class/rfkill/rfkillX/name}
here so that netcfg can identify which to control.

@end table



@node bond
@subsection @code{bond}

Standard @code{ethernet} options apply for IP configuration.

@table @var
@item SLAVE_INTERFACES
An array of names of interfaces to be bound together.
@end table



@node bridge
@subsection @code{bridge}

The options of @code{ethernet} connections apply to set up
standard IP connectivity.

@table @var
@item BRIDGE_INTERFACES
List of network interfaces taking part in the bridge.

@item FWD_DELAY
Forward delay of the bridge, see @command{brctl}.

@item MAX_AGE
Maximum age parameter, see @command{brctl}.
@end table



@node tuntap
@subsection @code{tuntap}

The options of @code{ethernet} connections apply to set up
standard IP connectivity.

@table @var
@item MODE
Set to @code{tun} or @code{tap}.

@item USER
The owning user of the tun/tap interface.

@item GROUP
The owning group of the tun/tap interface.
@end table



@node tunnel
@subsection @code{tunnel}

Standard @code{ethernet} options apply for IP configuration.

@table @var
@item INTERFACE
The name of the tunnel interface.

@item MODE
The tunnel type (e.g. @code{sit}). See @command{ip} for available modes.

@item LOCAL
The address of the local end of the tunnel.

@item REMOTE
The address of the remote end of the tunnel.
@end table



@node vlan
@subsection @code{vlan}

@table @var
@item INTERFACE
The name of the virtual interface.

@item VLAN_PHYS_DEV
The name of the associated physical interface.

@item VLAN_ID
See @command{ip}.
@end table



@node openvpn
@subsection @code{openvpn}

@table @var
@item OVPN_CONFIG
Path to the @command{openvpn} config file.

@item OVPN_PID_FILE
Path to the @command{openvpn} PID file.

@item OVPN_FLAGS
Options to pass to @command{openvpn} invocation.
@end table



@node ppp
@subsection @code{ppp}

@table @var
@item PEER
The @command{pppd} peer to use.

@item PPP_TIMEOUT
@command{pppd} timeout.
@end table



@c @node pppoe
@c @subsection @code{pppoe}




@node GNU Free Documentation License
@appendix GNU Free Documentation License
@include fdl.texinfo

@bye

